HMS-3710 : Virtual Background Android Suppport (#337)
100mslive/100ms-docs: docs/android/v2/plugins/Virtual-background.mdx

---
title: Virtual Background
nav: 12
---

## Introduction

Virtual background plugin helps in customising one’s background i.e. replacing the background with a static image.
This guide provides an overview of usage of the virtual background plugin of 100ms.

![VirtualBackground](/docs/v2/vb.jpg)

## Supported Android API Levels

> Virtual background plugin supports Android API level 21 and higher and minimum sdk version support is 21. It is built for armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86, and x86_64 architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Min api version for the virtual background plugin is 21. Same as the min api version core sdk for 100ms. The lowest SDK version it can work with is REPLACE_THIS. It is built for armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86, and x86_64 architectures.
```

## Prerequisites

Familiarity with Android Studio and the [fundamentals](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/firstapp) of android apps.

> ## Basic Concepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common Terms
```

> -   `image background` - This is where the plugin will replace the video background with the image provided by user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `image background` - The image which the plugin should replace the background with in the user's video.
```

> -   `plugin load time` - This is the time taken by plugin to load ML model for the first time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `plugin load time` - The time taken by the plugin to load the  machine learning model for the first time. The machine learning model is what will identify what part of the image the background is and is essential to virtual background working.
```

## Add dependency

-   Add the 100ms Virtual Background plugin and sdk dependency to your app-level `build.gradle` [![](https://jitpack.io/v/100mslive/android-sdk.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#100mslive/android-sdk).

```json{3,4}:build.gradle
dependencies {
 // See the version in the jitpack badge above.
 implementation 'com.github.100mslive:android-sdk-virtual-background:x.x.x'
 implementation 'com.github.100mslive:android-sdk:x.x.x'
    }
```

> ##Interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Interfaces
```

### Instantiate VirtualBackground

Instantiate the 100ms Virtual Background plugin like this:

<Tabs id="instanstiate-VirtualBackground" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='instanstiate-VirtualBackground-0'>

```kotlin
      val hmsSdk = HMSSDK
              .Builder(application)
              .build()
      val virtualBackground = HMSVirtualBackground(hmsSdk, imageBitmap)
```

</Tab>

<Tab id='instanstiate-VirtualBackground-1'>

```java
   HMSSDK hmssdk = new HMSSDK
                           .Builder(application)
                           .build();

>    val virtualBackground = new HMSVirtualBackground(hmssdk, imageBitmap)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   HMSVirtualBackground virtualBackground = new HMSVirtualBackground(hmssdk, imageBitmap)
```

```
</Tab>

> That's it. You have instanstiate virtual background plugin successfully. 🥳

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it. You have instanstiated virtual background plugin successfully. 🥳
```

> Now, let's take a look at the signature of the Join API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's take a look at the signature of the Join API.
```

> As evident, `HMSVirtualBackground` accepts 2 arguments -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HMSVirtualBackground` accepts 2 arguments -
```

-   `hmssdk`: an object of type `HMSSDK` class
-   `imageBitmap`: A background image bitmap you want to replace your background to.

## Check if plugin is supported

> isSupported can be used to check if the API level of device is supported or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HMSVirtualBackground.isSupported` can be used to check if the API level of device is supported or not.
```

It will return True/False based on API Level.

```kotlin
if(virtualBackground.isSupported()){
    console.log("Device is supported");
}else{
    console.log("Device not supported");
}
```

## Init(Optional)

> Init is used to load model of virtual background for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Init is used to load the machine learning model of virtual background for the first time.
```

It takes on an average 300-500 ms.<br/>
Calling init is handled internally by SDK if not done by user, in this case addPlugin call will

> take 300-500 ms for the first time and then less than 10ms in the subsequent calls.

Reviewer: Consider throwing an exception if init is not called by the user because that needs to be called on a background thread and addPlugin need not be.

Author: I will update this

> Check [this section](#add-and-remove-plugin) for addPlugin API usage

Reviewer: Broken link
```suggestion
Check [this section](#add-plugin) for addPlugin API usage
```

}catch(err){
   console.log("failed to init Plugin", err);
}
```

## Add Plugin

<Tabs id="plugin-code" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='plugin-code-0'>

```kotlin
// This will apply the virtual background effect to the local video
try{
    hmssdk.addPlugin(virtualBackground, pluginFrameRate);
}catch(err){
    console.log("failed to add Plugin", err);
}

```
</Tab>

<Tab id='plugin-code-1'>

```Java
// This will apply the virtual background effect to the local video
try{
    hmssdk.addPlugin(virtualBackground, pluginFrameRate);
}catch(err){
    console.log("failed to add Plugin", err);
}

```
</Tab>

## Remove Plugin

<Tabs id="plugin-code" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='plugin-code-0'>

```kotlin
// This will remove the virtual background effect from the local video
try{
    hmssdk.removePlugin(virtualBackground);
}catch(err){
    console.log("failed to remove Plugin", err);
}
```
</Tab>

<Tab id='plugin-code-1'>

```Java
// This will remove the virtual background effect from the local video
try{
    hmssdk.removePlugin(virtualBackground);
}catch(err){
    console.log("failed to remove Plugin", err);
}
```
</Tab>

## Change Background

> Call setBackground from the plugin to update the background again later if required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Call `setBackground` on the `HMSVirtualBackground` instance to update the background again later if required.
```

> It accepts imageBitmap as a parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It accepts imageBitmap as a parameter.
```

> Image will get fit to the video by maintaining the aspect ratio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image will be fit to the video by maintaining the aspect ratio.
```

---
title: Virtual Background
nav: 12
---

## Introduction

Virtual background plugin helps in customising one’s background i.e. replacing the background with a static image.
This guide provides an overview of usage of the virtual background plugin of 100ms.

> ![VirtualBackground](/docs/v2/vb.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Center align the image

## Supported Android API Levels

> Min api version for the virtual background plugin is 21. Same as the min api version core sdk for 100ms. The lowest SDK version it can work with is 21. It is built for armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86, and x86_64 architectures.

Reviewer 2: ## Supported Devices/Versions

- Minimum Android api level required to support virtual background plugin is 21, same as that required for 100ms SDK

- Minimum 100ms SDK version it can work with is <>

- Virtual background plugin is built for armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86 and x86_64 architectures

## Prerequisites

Familiarity with Android Studio and the [fundamentals](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/firstapp) of android apps.

## Common Terms

-   `image background` - The image which the plugin should replace the background with in the user's video.
-   `plugin load time` - The time taken by the plugin to load the  machine learning model for the first time. The machine learning model is what will identify what part of the image the background is and is essential to virtual background working.

> ## Add dependency

Reviewer 2: Adding the Virtual Background plugin

-   Add the 100ms Virtual Background plugin and sdk dependency to your app-level `build.gradle` [![](https://jitpack.io/v/100mslive/android-sdk.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#100mslive/android-sdk).

```json{3,4}:build.gradle
dependencies {
 // See the version in the jitpack badge above.
 implementation 'com.github.100mslive:android-sdk-virtual-background:x.x.x'
 implementation 'com.github.100mslive:android-sdk:x.x.x'
    }
```
## Interfaces

### Instantiate VirtualBackground

Instantiate the 100ms Virtual Background plugin like this:

<Tabs id="instanstiate-VirtualBackground" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='instanstiate-VirtualBackground-0'>

```kotlin

>       val hmsSdk = HMSSDK

Reviewer 2: Remove the tab at the beginning of each line of code

              .Builder(application)
              .build()
      val virtualBackground = HMSVirtualBackground(hmsSdk, imageBitmap)
```

</Tab>

<Tab id='instanstiate-VirtualBackground-1'>

```java

>    HMSSDK hmssdk = new HMSSDK

Reviewer 2: Use hmsSdk or hmssdk consistently

                           .Builder(application)
                           .build();
   HMSVirtualBackground virtualBackground = new HMSVirtualBackground(hmssdk, imageBitmap)
```
</Tab>

> That's it. You have instanstiated virtual background plugin successfully. 🥳

Reviewer 2: Make virtual background or Virtual Background (caps) consistent throughout the doc

This guide provides an overview of usage of the Virtual Background plugin of 100ms.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![VirtualBackground](/docs/v2/android-vb.gif)

</div>

## Supported Devices/Versions

-   Minimum Android api level required to support Virtual Background plugin is 21, same as that required for 100ms SDK
-   Minimum 100ms SDK version it can work with is `2.2.2`
-   Virtual background plugin is built for armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86 and x86_64 architectures

## Size Increase Per Architecture

- `x86_64` - 15 MB
-  `x86`   - 14 MB
-  `arm64-v8a` - 14.5 MB
-  `armeabi-v7a` - 11 MB

## Prerequisites

Familiarity with Android Studio and the [fundamentals](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/firstapp) of android apps.

## Common Terms

-   `image background` - The image which the plugin should replace the background with in the user's video.
-   `plugin load time` - The time taken by the plugin to load the  machine learning model for the first time. The machine learning model is what will identify what part of the image the background is and is essential to virtual background working.

## Add dependency

> -   Adding the Virtual Background plugin and sdk dependency to your app-level `build.gradle` [![](https://jitpack.io/v/100mslive/android-sdk.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#100mslive/android-sdk).

Author: Have to add the link for VB dependency after publishing to maven

Author: done

---
title: Virtual Background
nav: 15
---

## Introduction

Virtual Background plugin helps in customising one’s background i.e. replacing the background with a static image.
This guide provides an overview of usage of the Virtual Background plugin of 100ms.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![VirtualBackground](/docs/v2/android-vb.gif)

</div>

## Supported Devices/Versions/Resolutions

-   Minimum Android api level required to support Virtual Background plugin is 21, same as that required for 100ms SDK
-   Minimum 100ms SDK version it can work with is `2.2.2`
-   Virtual background plugin is built for armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86 and x86_64 architectures

> -   We have not extended support for 720p and 1080p resolution for this feature

Reviewer 2: Can we make it - max supported resolution is 480p

## Add dependency

-   Adding the Virtual Background plugin and sdk dependency to your app-level `build.gradle` [![](https://jitpack.io/v/100mslive/android-sdk.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#100mslive/android-sdk).

```json{3,4}:build.gradle
dependencies {
 // See the version in the jitpack badge above.
 implementation 'com.github.100mslive:android-sdk-virtual-background:x.x.x'
 implementation 'com.github.100mslive:android-sdk:x.x.x'
    }
```
## Interfaces

### Instantiate VirtualBackground

Instantiate the 100ms Virtual Background plugin like this:

<Tabs id="instanstiate-VirtualBackground" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='instanstiate-VirtualBackground-0'>

```kotlin
val hmsSdk = HMSSDK
      .Builder(application)
      .build()
val virtualBackground = HMSVirtualBackground(hmsSdk, imageBitmap)
```

</Tab>

<Tab id='instanstiate-VirtualBackground-1'>

```java
HMSSDK hmsSdk = new HMSSDK
                       .Builder(application)
                       .build();
HMSVirtualBackground virtualBackground = new HMSVirtualBackground(hmsSdk, imageBitmap)
```
</Tab>

That's it. You have instantiated Virtual Background plugin successfully. 🥳

> Now let's take a look at the signature of the HMSVirtualBackground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's take a look at the method signature of HMSVirtualBackground.
```

`HMSVirtualBackground` accepts 2 arguments -
-   `hmsSdk`: an object of type `HMSSDK` class

> -   `imageBitmap`: A background image bitmap you want to replace your background to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `imageBitmap`: The image that the background will be replaced with.
```

### Check if plugin is supported

> `HMSVirtualBackground.isSupported` can be used to check if the API level/Resolution of device is supported or not.

Reviewer 2: What resolution do we check here?

Author: We are checking the input video resolution, not supporting if exceeds 480p

It will return True/False based on these parameters.

<Tabs id="Check-plugin-support" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='Check-plugin-support-0'>

```kotlin

> if(virtualBackground.isSupported()){
>     console.log("Device/Resolution is supported");
> }else{
>     console.log("Device/Resolution is not supported, check Supported Devices/Versions/Resolutions section");
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if(virtualBackground.isSupported()){
    // Allow turning virtual background on
}else{
    // Do not allow turning virtual background on
}
```

```
</Tab>

<Tab id='Check-plugin-support-1'>

```java
if(virtualBackground.isSupported()){
    console.log("Device/Resolution is supported");
}else{
    console.log("Device/Resolution is not supported, check Supported Devices/Versions/Resolutions sections");
}
```

> </Tab>

Reviewer: This isn't really different for java so it can be removed.

### Init(Optional)

Init is used to load the machine learning model of Virtual Background for the first time.
It takes on an average 50-200 ms.<br/>
Calling init is handled internally by SDK if not done by user, in this case addPlugin call will
take 50-200 ms for the first time and then less than 10ms in the subsequent calls.
Check [this section](#add-plugin) for addPlugin API usage

<Tabs id="Init" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='Init-0'>

```kotlin
try{
   virtualBackground.init();
}catch(err){
   console.log("failed to init Plugin", err);
}
```
</Tab>

<Tab id='Init-1'>

```java
try{
   virtualBackground.init();
}catch(err){
   console.log("failed to init Plugin", err);
}
```
</Tab>

### Change Background

Call `setBackground` on the `HMSVirtualBackground` instance to update the background again later if required.
It accepts imageBitmap or String as a parameter

> -  `imageBitmap`- Bitmap - A background image bitmap you want to replace your background to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `imageBitmap`- Bitmap - The image that the background will be replaced with.
```

-  `None` - String - This will remove the background effect from the video

> Image will get fit to the video by maintaining the aspect ratio.

Reviewer 2: Image will be scaled to fit to the video. Scaling will the maintain image aspect ratio.

If the aspect ratio of the background image is not the same as the video, the image will be cropped to fit in the background.

It will return `true` if background is set properly otherwise returns `false`. In case of `false` value `virtualBackground` plugin sets
background to `None` itself.

<Tabs id="Change-Background" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='Change-Background-0'>

```kotlin
// imageBitmap parameter is explained in Instantiate Virtual Background section

> var isSet = virtualBackground.setBackground(imageBitmap | "None");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val isSet = virtualBackground.setBackground(imageBitmap | "None");
```

if(isSet)

>    console.log("Background is applied successfully")
> }else{
>     console.log("Failed to update background, try sending a valid bitmap");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   // Background is applied successfully
}else{
    // Failed to update background, try sending a valid bitmap
```

}
```
</Tab>

<Tab id='Change-Background-1'>

```java
// imageBitmap parameter is explained in Instantiate Virtual Background section

> var isSet = virtualBackground.setBackground(imageBitmap | "None");

Reviewer: Make this java code

if(isSet)
   console.log("Background is applied successfully")
}else{
    console.log("Failed to update background, try sending a valid bitmap");
}
```
</Tab>

### Tuning pluginFrameRate(Optional)

`pluginFrameRate` - pluginFrameRate helps in controlling the performance and experience of Virtual Background plugin.
pluginFrameRate translates to the number of frames for which background is detected. Higher value will use more resources
(cpu/memory/battery), while making the Virtual Background experience smooth. Lower value will be generous on resources,
 while lowering the Virtual Background smoothness. Recommended value is 15. Values higher than this will not significantly
 improve Virtual Background smoothness but will be heavy on resources. For lower end devices value can be in the range of 7-10.

## Add Plugin

> To add Virtual background plugin app needs to call `addPlugin` method of `HMSSDK` which takes in 3 parameters - The first
> one is `virtualBackground` instance of the plugin, The second one is `HMSActionResultListener` which is a callback object
> needed to inform about success or failure of the action and the third one is `pluginFrameRate` an optional parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add Virtual background plugin app needs to call `addPlugin` method of `HMSSDK` which takes in 3 parameters -
1. `virtualBackground`:  An instance of the plugin.
2. `HMSActionResultListener`: A callback for success or failure of adding the virtual background.
3. `pluginFrameRate`: An optional parameter for how many frames per second the virtual background image replacement should be updated.
```

> needed to inform about success or failure of the action and the third one is `pluginFrameRate` an optional parameter

Reviewer 2: Give default values here

Check [this section](#tuning-plugin-frame-rate-optional) for its usage

<Tabs id="plugin-code" items={['Kotlin', 'Java']} />

<Tab id='plugin-code-0'>

```kotlin
// This will apply the Virtual Background effect to the local video
hmsSdk.addPlugin(virtualBackground, object : HMSActionResultListener {
       override fun onError(error: HMSException) {
         // an error occurred
       }

       override fun onSuccess() {
         // added successfully
       }
      },
      pluginFrameRate)
```
</Tab>

<Tab id='plugin-code-1'>

```Java
// This will apply the Virtual Background effect to the local video

> hmsSdk.addPlugin(virtualBackground, object : HMSActionResultListener {

Reviewer: Add java code

       override fun onError(error: HMSException) {
         // an error occurred
       }

       override fun onSuccess() {
         // added successfully
       }
     },
     pluginFrameRate)
```
</Tab>

## Remove Plugin

> To remove Virtual background plugin app needs to call `removePlugin` method of `HMSSDK` which takes in 2 parameters - The first
> one is `virtualBackground` instance of the plugin and the second one is `HMSActionResultListener` which is a callback object
> needed to inform about success or failure of the action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove the virtual background plugin the app needs to call `removePlugin` method of `HMSSDK` which takes in 2 parameters.
1. `virtualBackground`: An instance of the plugin.
 2. `HMSActionResultListener`: A callback for success or failure of adding the virtual background.
```
